wicked women or soon leave them charring into ashes there. O Goddess, suffer not, I pray, this harsh deed to be done, But show us Greece and Athens with their warlike acts repealed! For this alone, in this thy hold, Thou Goddess with the helm of gold, We laid hands on thy sanctuary, Athene.... Then our ally be And where they cast their fires of slaughter Direct our water! STRATYLLIS (_caught_) Let me go! WOMEN You villainous old men, what's this you do? No honest man, no pious man, could do such things as you. MEN Ah ha, here's something most original, I have no doubt: A swarm of women sentinels to man the walls without. WOMEN So then we scare you, do we? Do we seem a fearful host? You only see the smallest fraction mustered at this post. MEN Ho, Phaedrias, shall we put a stop to all these chattering tricks? Suppose that now upon their backs we splintered these our sticks? WOMEN Let us lay down the pitchers, so our bodies will be free, In case these lumping fellows try to cause some injury. MEN O hit them hard and hit again and hit until they run away, And perhaps they'll learn, like Bupalus, not to have too much to say. WOMEN Come on, then--do it! I won't budge, but like a dog I'll bite At every little scrap of meat that dangles in my sight. MEN Be quiet, or I'll bash you out of any years to come. WOMEN Now you just touch Stratyllis with the top-joint of your thumb. MEN What vengeance can you take if with my fists your face I beat? WOMEN I'll rip you with my teeth and strew your entrails at your feet. MEN Now I appreciate Euripides' strange subtlety: Woman is the most shameless beast of all the beasts that be. WOMEN Rhodippe, come, and let's pick up our water-jars once more. MEN Ah cursed drab, what have you brought this water for? WOMEN What is your fire for then, you smelly corpse? Yourself to burn? MEN To build a pyre and make your comrades ready for the urn. WOMEN And I've the water to put out your fire immediately. MEN What, you put out my fire? WOMEN Yes, sirrah, as you soon will see. MEN I don't know why I hesitate to roast you with this flame. WOMEN If you have any soap you'll go off cleaner than you came. MEN Cleaner, you dirty slut? WOMEN A nuptial-bath in which to lie! MEN Did you hear that insolence? WOMEN I'm a free woman, I. MEN I'll make you hold your tongue. WOMEN Henceforth you'll serve in no more juries. MEN Burn off her hair for her. WOMEN Now forward, water, quench their furies! MEN O dear, O dear! WOMEN So ... was it hot? MEN Hot! ... Enough, O hold. WOMEN Watered, perhaps you'll bloom again--why not? MEN Brrr, I'm wrinkled up from shivering with cold. WOMEN Next time