own, a corresponsive print; And look, another footmark,—this his own, And that the foot of one who walked with him. Mark, how the heel and tendons’ print combine, Measured exact, with mine coincident! Alas! for doubt and anguish rack my mind. ORESTES (_approaching suddenly_) Pray thou, in gratitude for prayers fulfilled, _Fair fall the rest of what I ask of heaven_. ELECTRA Wherefore? what win I from the gods by prayer? ORESTES This, that thine eyes behold thy heart’s desire. ELECTRA On whom of mortals know’st thou that I call? ORESTES I know thy yearning for Orestes deep. ELECTRA Say then, wherein event hath crowned my prayer? ORESTES I, I am he; seek not one more akin. ELECTRA Some fraud, O stranger, weavest thou for me? ORESTES Against myself I weave it, if I weave. ELECTRA Ah, thou hast mind to mock me in my woe! ORESTES ’Tis at mine own I mock then, mocking thine. ELECTRA Speak I with thee then as Orestes’ self? ORESTES My very face thou see’st and know’st me not, And yet but now, when thou didst see the lock Shorn for my father’s grave, and when thy quest Was eager on the footprints I had made, Even I, thy brother, shaped and sized as thou, Fluttered thy spirit, as at sight of me! Lay now this ringlet whence ’twas shorn, and judge, And look upon this robe, thine own hands’ work, The shuttle-prints, the creature wrought thereon— Refrain thyself, nor prudence lose in joy, For well I wot, our kin are less than kind. ELECTRA O thou that art unto our father’s home Love, grief and hope, for thee the tears ran down, For thee, the son, the saviour that should be; Trust thou thine arm and win thy father’s halls! O aspect sweet of fourfold love to me, Whom upon thee the heart’s constraint bids call As on my father, and the claim of love From me unto my mother turns to thee, For she is very hate; to thee too turns What of my heart went out to her who died A ruthless death upon the altar-stone; And for myself I love thee—thee that wast A brother leal, sole stay of love to me. Now by thy side be strength and right, and Zeus Saviour almighty, stand to aid the twain! ORESTES Zeus, Zeus! look down on our estate and us, The orphaned brood of him, our eagle-sire, Whom to his death a fearful serpent brought Enwinding him in coils; and we, bereft And foodless, sink with famine, all too weak To bear unto the eyrie, as he bore, Such quarry as he slew. Lo! I and she, Electra, stand before thee, fatherless, And each alike cast out and homeless made. ELECTRA And if thou leave to death the brood of him Whose altar blazed for thee, whose reverence Was thine, all thine,—whence, in the after years, Shall any hand like his adorn thy shrine With sacrifice of flesh? the eaglets slain,