Hewn down and foully torn, He to the tomb was borne; Yea, by her hand, the deed who wrought, With like dishonour to the grave was brought, And by her hand she strove, with strong desire, Thy life to crush, O child, by murder of thy sire: Bethink thee, hearing, of the shame, the pain Wherewith that sire was slain! ELECTRA Yea, such was the doom of my sire; well-a-day, I was thrust from his side,— As a dog from the chamber they thrust me away, And in place of my laughter rose sobbing and tears, As in darkness I lay. O father, if this word can pass to thine ears, To thy soul let it reach and abide! CHORUS Let it pass, let it pierce, through the sense of thine ear, To thy soul, where in silence it waiteth the hour! The past is accomplished; but rouse thee to hear What the future prepareth; awake and appear, Our champion, in wrath and in power! ORESTES O father, to thy loved ones come in aid. ELECTRA With tears I call on thee. CHORUS Listen and rise to light! Be thou with us, be thou against the foe! Swiftly this cry arises—even so Pray we, the loyal band, as we have prayed! ORESTES Let their might meet with mine, and their right with my right. ELECTRA O ye Gods, it is yours to decree. CHORUS Ye call unto the dead; I quake to hear. Fate is ordained of old, and shall fulfil your prayer. ELECTRA Alas, the inborn curse that haunts our home, Of Atè’s bloodstained scourge the tuneless sound! Alas, the deep insufferable doom, The stanchless wound! ORESTES It shall be stanched, the task is ours,— Not by a stranger’s, but by kindred hand, Shall be chased forth the blood-fiend of our land. Be this our spoken spell, to call Earth’s nether powers! CHORUS Lords of a dark eternity, To you has come the children’s cry, Send up from hell, fulfil your aid To them who prayed. ORESTES O father, murdered in unkingly wise, Fulfil my prayer, grant me thine halls to sway. ELECTRA To me too, grant this boon—dark death to deal Unto Aegisthus, and to ’scape my doom. ORESTES So shall the rightful feasts that mortals pay Be set for thee; else, not for thee shall rise The scented reek of altars fed with flesh, But thou shall lie dishonoured: hear thou me! ELECTRA I too, from my full heritage restored, Will pour the lustral streams, what time I pass Forth as a bride from these paternal halls, And honour first, beyond all graves, thy tomb. ORESTES Earth, send my sire to fend me in the fight! ELECTRA Give fair-faced fortune, O Persephone! ORESTES Bethink thee, father, in the laver slain— ELECTRA Bethink thee of the net they handselled for thee! ORESTES Bonds not of brass ensnared thee, father mine. ELECTRA Yea, the ill craft of an enfolding robe. ORESTES By this our bitter speech arise, O sire!