thee in the dawn hath sped, And the cot on the mountain grey, For the Watcher hath cried this day: He of the ancient folk, The walker of waste and hill, Who drinketh the milk of the flock; And he told of Hera's will; For the morrow's morrow now They cry her festival, And before her throne shall bow Our damsels all. ELECTRA. Not unto joy, nor sweet Music, nor shining of gold, The wings of my spirit beat. Let the brides of Argos hold Their dance in the night, as of old; I lead no dance; I mark No beat as the dancers sway; With tears I dwell in the dark, And my thought is of tears alway, To the going down of the day. Look on my wasted hair And raiment.... This that I bear, Is it meet for the King my sire, And her whom the King begot? For Troy, that was burned with fire And forgetteth not? CHORUS. _Other Women._ Hera is great!--Ah, come, [_Antistrophe_. Be kind; and my hand shall bring Fair raiment, work of the loom, And many a golden thing, For joyous robe-wearing. Deemest thou this thy woe Shall rise unto God as prayer, Or bend thine haters low? Doth God for thy pain have care? Not tears for the dead nor sighs, But worship and joy divine Shall win thee peace in thy skies, O daughter mine! ELECTRA. No care cometh to God For the voice of the helpless; none For the crying of ancient blood. Alas for him that is gone, And for thee, O wandering one: That now, methinks, in a land Of the stranger must toil for hire, And stand where the poor men stand, A-cold by another's fire, O son of the mighty sire: While I in a beggar's cot On the wrecked hills, changing not, Starve in my soul for food; But our mother lieth wed In another's arms, and blood Is about her bed. LEADER. On all of Greece she wrought great jeopardy, Thy mother's sister, Helen,--and on thee. [ORESTES _and_ PYLADES _move out from their concealment_; ORESTES _comes forward_: PYLADES _beckons to two_ ARMED SERVANTS _and stays with them in the background_. ELECTRA. Woe's me! No more of wailing! Women, flee! Strange armèd men beside the dwelling there Lie ambushed! They are rising from their lair. Back by the road, all you. I will essay The house; and may our good feet save us! ORESTES (_between_ ELECTRA _and the hut_). Stay, Unhappy woman! Never fear my steel. ELECTRA (_in utter panic_). O bright Apollo! Mercy! See, I kneel; Slay me not. ORESTES. Others I have yet to slay Less dear than thou. ELECTRA. Go from me! Wouldst thou lay Hand on a body that is not for thee? ORESTES. None is there I would touch more righteously. ELECTRA. Why lurk'st thou by my house? And why a sword? ORESTES. Stay. Listen! Thou wilt not gainsay my word. ELECTRA. There--I am still. Do what thou wilt