drove at Rhesus' side-- But wolves were on their backs, wolves, couched astride, Who drove and scourged; I saw the horses rear And stagger with wide nostrils, stiff with fear, And, starting up to drive the beasts away, I woke.--A terror of great darkness lay [vv. 788-809] About me, but I lifted up my head And listened. There was moaning, like the dead That moan at night, and over me there flowed, So soft, so warm--it was my master's blood, Who writhed beside me, dying! With a bound I sprang up, empty-handed, groping round For spear or sword, when, lo, a young strong man Was close to me and slashed, and the sword ran Deep through my flank. I felt its passage well, So deep, so wide, so spreading . . . then I fell. And they, they got the bridles in their hand And fled. . . . Ah! Ah! This pain. I cannot stand. [_The Guards catch him as he reels, and lay him on the ground._ I know, I saw, thus much. But why or how Those dead men went to death I cannot know, Nor by whose work. But this I say; God send 'Tis not foul wrong wrought on us by a friend. LEADER. Good charioteer of that ill-fortuned king, Suspect us not. 'Tis Greeks have done this thing. But yonder Hector comes. He hath been shown The foul deed, and thy sorrows are his own. _Enter_ HECTOR _in wrath, with a band of Guards_. HECTOR. Ye workers of amazement! Have your eyes No sight? Ye watch and let these Argive spies Pass--and our friends are butchered in their sleep-- [vv. 810-834] And then pass back unwounded, laughing deep Amid the galleys at the news they bring Of Trojan sluggards and the fool their king? Great God, ye never baulked them as they came, Nor smote them as they went! [_His eye falls on the_ CAPTAIN. Who bears the blame Of this but thou? Thou wast the watcher set To guard this host till morn. I tell thee yet For this deed--I have sworn by Zeus our Lord!-- The scourge of torment or the headsman's sword Awaits thee. Else, be Hector in your thought Writ down a babbler and a man of nought. LEADER (_grovelling before_ HECTOR). Woe, woe! It was for thee, only for thee, I must have gone, O Help and Majesty, That time with message that the fires were burning. Mine eye was keen; I swear by Simoïs river, It never drooped nor slumbered, never, never, From eve till morning! My master, verily, I am innocent utterly, Build not such wrath against me, Lord, nor harden Thy heart; let Time be judge; and if in deed Or word I have offended, let me bleed! Bury me here alive! I ask no pardon. [HECTOR _is standing over him ready to strike when the_ CHARIOTEER _speaks_. THRACIAN. Why threaten them? Art thou a Greek to blind My barbarous wit so nimbly, in a wind