dust— Woe, woe is me!—with craft invincible. ATHENA Older art thou than I, and I will bear With this thy fury. Know, although thou be More wise in ancient wisdom, yet have I From Zeus no scanted measure of the same, Wherefore take heed unto this prophecy— If to another land of alien men Ye go, too late shall ye feel longing deep For mine. The rolling tides of time bring round A day of brighter glory for this town; And thou, enshrined in honour by the halls Where dwelt Erechtheus, shalt a worship win From men and from the train of womankind, Greater than any tribe elsewhere shall pay. Cast thou not therefore on this soil of mine Whetstones that sharpen souls to bloodshedding. The burning goads of youthful hearts, made hot With frenzy of the spirit, not of wine. Nor pluck as ’twere the heart from cocks that strive, To set it in the breasts of citizens Of mine, a war-god’s spirit, keen for fight, Made stern against their country and their kin. The man who grievously doth lust for fame, War, full, immitigable, let him wage Against the stranger; but of kindred birds I hold the challenge hateful. Such the boon I proffer thee—within this land of lands, Most loved of gods, with me to show and share Fair mercy, gratitude and grace as fair. CHORUS I, I dishonoured in this earth to dwell,— Ancient of days and wisdom! I breathe forth Poison and breath of frenzied ire. O Earth, Woe, woe for thee, for me! From side to side what pains be these that thrill? Hearken, O mother Night, my wrath, mine agony! Whom from mine ancient rights the gods have thrust, And brought me to the dust— Woe, woe is me!—with craft invincible. ATHENA I will not weary of soft words to thee, That never mayst thou say, _Behold me spurned, An elder by a younger deity, And from this land rejected and forlorn, Unhonoured by the men who dwell therein_. But, if Persuasion’s grace be sacred to thee, Soft in the soothing accents of my tongue, Tarry, I pray thee; yet, if go thou wilt, Not rightfully wilt thou on this my town Sway down the scale that beareth wrath and teen Or wasting plague upon this folk. ’Tis thine, If so thou wilt, inheritress to be Of this my land, its utmost grace to win. CHORUS O queen, what refuge dost thou promise me? ATHENA Refuge untouched by bale: take thou my boon. CHORUS What, if I take it, shall mine honour be? ATHENA No house shall prosper without grace of thine. CHORUS Canst thou achieve and grant such power to me? ATHENA Yea, for my hand shall bless thy worshippers. CHORUS And wilt thou pledge me this for time eterne? ATHENA Yea: none can bid me pledge beyond my power. CHORUS Lo, I desist from wrath, appeased by thee. ATHENA Then in the land’s heart shalt thou win thee friends. CHORUS What