reel.... O horrible! Was it agony Like this, she boded in her last wild cry? There lives no seed of man calamitous, Nor hath lived, like this seed of Tantalus. ORESTES. O Dark of the Earth, O God, Thou to whom all is plain; Look on my sin, my blood, This horror of dead things twain; Gathered as one they lie Slain; and the slayer was I, I, to pay for my pain! ELECTRA. Let tear rain upon tear, Brother: but mine is the blame. A fire stood over her, And out of the fire I came, I, in my misery.... And I was the child at her knee. 'Mother' I named her name. CHORUS. Alas for Fate, for the Fate of thee, O Mother, Mother of Misery: And Misery, lo, hath turned again, To slay thee, Misery and more, Even in the fruit thy body bore. Yet hast thou Justice, Justice plain, For a sire's blood spilt of yore! ORESTES. Apollo, alas for the hymn Thou sangest, as hope in mine ear! The Song was of Justice dim, But the Deed is anguish clear; And the Gift, long nights of fear, Of blood and of wandering, Where cometh no Greek thing, Nor sight, nor sound on the air. Yea, and beyond, beyond, Roaming--what rest is there? Who shall break bread with me? Who, that is clean, shall see And hate not the blood-red hand, His mother's murderer? ELECTRA. And I? What clime shall hold My evil, or roof it above? I cried for dancing of old, I cried in my heart for love: What dancing waiteth me now? What love that shall kiss my brow Nor blench at the brand thereof? CHORUS. Back, back, in the wind and rain Thy driven spirit wheeleth again. Now is thine heart made clean within That was dark of old and murder-fraught. But, lo, thy brother; what hast thou wrought.... Yea, though I love thee.... what woe, what sin, On him, who willed it not! ORESTES. Saw'st thou her raiment there, Sister, there in the blood? She drew it back as she stood, She opened her bosom bare, She bent her knees to the earth, The knees that bent in my birth.... And I ... Oh, her hair, her hair.... [_He breaks into inarticulate weeping_ CHORUS. Oh, thou didst walk in agony, Hearing thy mother's cry, the cry Of wordless wailing, well know I. ELECTRA. She stretched her hand to my cheek, And there brake from her lips a moan; 'Mercy, my child, my own!' Her hand clung to my cheek; Clung, and my arm was weak; And the sword fell and was gone. CHORUS. Unhappy woman, could thine eye Look on the blood, and see her lie, Thy mother, where she turned to die? ORESTES. I lifted over mine eyes My mantle: blinded I smote, As one smiteth a sacrifice; And the sword found her throat. ELECTRA. I gave thee the sign and the word; I touched with mine hand thy sword.