again And unforgotten, an old and burning stain Never to pass away. CLYTEMNESTRA. Nay, pray not for the hour of death, being tried Too sore beneath these blows Neither on Helen turn thy wrath aside, The Slayer of Men, the face which hath destroyed Its thousand Danaan souls, and wrought a wide Wound that no leech can close. CHORUS. —Daemon, whose heel is set On the House and the twofold kin Of the high Tantalidae, A power, heavy as fate, Thou wieldest through woman’s sin, Piercing the heart of me! —Like a raven swoln with hate He hath set on the dead his claw, He croaketh a song to sate His fury, and calls it Law! CLYTEMNESTRA. Ah, call upon Him! Yea, call— And thy thought hath found its path— The Daemon who haunts this hall, The thrice-engorged Wrath; From him is the ache of the flesh For blood born and increased; Ere the old sore hath ceased It oozeth afresh. CHORUS. —Indeed He is very great, And heavy his anger, He, The Daemon who guides the fate Of the old Tantalidae: Alas, alas, an evil tale ye tell Of desolate angers and insatiable! —Ah me, And yet ’tis all as Zeus hath willed, Doer of all and Cause of all; By His Word every chance doth fall, No end without Him is fulfilled; What of these things But cometh by high Heaven’s counsellings? [_A band of Mourners has gathered within the House_.] MOURNERS. Ah, sorrow, sorrow! My King, my King! How shall I weep, what word shall I say? Caught in the web of this spider thing, In foul death gasping thy life away! Woe’s me, woe’s me, for this slavish lying, The doom of craft and the lonely dying, The iron two-edged and the hands that slay! CLYTEMNESTRA. And criest thou still this deed hath been My work? Nay, gaze, and have no thought That this is Agamemnon’s Queen. ’Tis He, ’tis He, hath round him wrought This phantom of the dead man’s wife; He, the old Wrath, the Driver of Men astray, Pursuer of Atreus for the feast defiled; To assoil an ancient debt he hath paid this life; A warrior and a crowned King this day Atones for a slain child. CHORUS. —That thou art innocent herein, What tongue dare boast? It cannot be, Yet from the deeps of ancient sin The Avenger may have wrought with thee. —On the red Slayer crasheth, groping wild For blood, more blood, to build his peace again, And wash like water the old frozen stain Of the torn child. MOURNERS. Ah, sorrow, sorrow! My King, my King! How shall I weep, what word shall I say? Caught in the web of this spider thing, In foul death gasping thy life away. Woe’s me, woe’s me, for this slavish lying, The doom of craft and the lonely dying, The iron two-edged and the hands that slay! CLYTEMNESTRA. And what of the doom of craft that first He planted, making the