mean this scented Syrian nard? CASSANDRA Nay, let me pass within to cry aloud The monarch’s fate and mine—enough of life. Ah friends! Bear to me witness, since I fall in death, That not as birds that shun the bush and scream I moan in idle terror. This attest When for my death’s revenge another dies, A woman for a woman, and a man Falls, for a man ill-wedded to his curse. Grant me this boon—the last before I die. CHORUS Brave to the last! I mourn thy doom foreseen. CASSANDRA Once more one utterance, but not of wail, Though for my death—and then I speak no more. Sun! thou whose beam I shall not see again, To thee I cry, Let those whom vengeance calls To slay their kindred’s slayers, quit withal The death of me, the slave, the fenceless prey. Ah state of mortal man! in time of weal, A line, a shadow! and if ill fate fall, One wet sponge-sweep wipes all our trace away— And this I deem less piteous, of the twain. [_Exit into the palace._ CHORUS Too true it is! our mortal state With bliss is never satiate, And none, before the palace high And stately of prosperity, Cries to us with a voice of fear, _Away! ’tis ill to enter here!_ Lo! this our lord hath trodden down, By grace of heaven, old Priam’s town, And praised as god he stands once more On Argos’ shore! Yet now—if blood shed long ago Cries out that other blood shall flow— His life-blood, his, to pay again The stern requital of the slain— Peace to that braggart’s vaunting vain, Who, having heard the chieftain’s tale, Yet boasts of bliss untouched by bale! [_A loud cry from within._ VOICE OF AGAMEMNON O I am sped—a deep, a mortal blow. CHORUS Listen, listen! who is screaming as in mortal agony? VOICE OF AGAMEMNON O! O! again, another, another blow! CHORUS The bloody act is over—I have heard the monarch’s cry— Let us swiftly take some counsel, lest we too be doomed to die. ONE OF THE CHORUS ’Tis best, I judge, aloud for aid to call, “Ho! loyal Argives! to the palace, all!” ANOTHER Better, I deem, ourselves to bear the aid, And drag the deed to light, while drips the blade. ANOTHER Such will is mine, and what thou say’st I say: Swiftly to act! the time brooks no delay. ANOTHER Ay, for ’tis plain, this prelude of their song Foretells its close in tyranny and wrong. ANOTHER Behold, we tarry—but thy name, Delay, They spurn, and press with sleepless hand to slay. ANOTHER I know not what ’twere well to counsel now— Who wills to act, ’tis his to counsel how. ANOTHER Thy doubt is mine: for when a man is slain, I have no words to bring his life again. ANOTHER What? e’en for life’s sake, bow us to obey These house-defilers and their tyrant sway? ANOTHER Unmanly doom! ’twere better far to die—