freeman and the slave. Speak, then, if aught thou know’st to aid us more. CHORUS Thou biddest; I will speak my soul’s thought out, Revering as a shrine thy father’s grave. ELECTRA Say then thy say, as thou his tomb reverest. CHORUS Speak solemn words to them that love, and pour. ELECTRA And of his kin whom dare I name as kind? CHORUS Thyself; and next, whoe’er Aegisthus scorns. ELECTRA Then ’tis myself and thou, my prayer must name. CHORUS Whoe’er they be, ’tis thine to know and name them. ELECTRA Is there no other we may claim as ours? CHORUS Think of Orestes, though far-off he be. ELECTRA Right well in this too hast thou schooled my thought. CHORUS Mindfully, next, on those who shed the blood— ELECTRA Pray on them what? expound, instruct my doubt. CHORUS This; _Upon them some god or mortal come_—— ELECTRA As judge or as avenger? speak thy thought. CHORUS Pray in set terms, _Who shall the slayer slay_. ELECTRA Beseemeth it to ask such boon of heaven? CHORUS How not, to wreak a wrong upon a foe? ELECTRA O mighty Hermes, warder of the shades, Herald of upper and of under world, Proclaim and usher down my prayer’s appeal Unto the gods below, that they with eyes Watchful behold these halls, my sire’s of old— And unto Earth, the mother of all things, And foster-nurse, and womb that takes their seed. Lo, I that pour these draughts for men now dead, Call on my father, who yet holds in ruth Me and mine own Orestes, _Father, speak— How shall thy children rule thine halls again? Homeless we are and sold; and she who sold Is she who bore us; and the price she took Is he who joined with her to work thy death_, _Aegisthus, her new lord. Behold me here Brought down to slave’s estate, and far away Wanders Orestes, banished from the wealth That once was thine, the profit of thy care, Whereon these revel in a shameful joy. Father, my prayer is said; ’tis thine to hear— Grant that some fair fate bring Orestes home, And unto me grant these—a purer soul Than is my mother’s, a more stainless hand._ These be my prayers for us; for thee, O sire, I cry that one may come to smite thy foes, And that the slayers may in turn be slain. Cursed is their prayer, and thus I bar its path, Praying mine own, a counter-curse on them. And thou, send up to us the righteous boon For which we pray: thine aids be heaven and earth, And justice guide the right to victory, [_To the Chorus._ Thus have I prayed, and thus I shed these streams, And follow ye the wont, and as with flowers Crown ye with many a tear and cry the dirge, Your lips ring out above the dead man’s grave. [_She pours the libations_. CHORUS Woe, woe, woe! Let the teardrop fall, plashing on the ground Where