guildsmen yet, though seven years old; Yet up among the dead He is demagogue and head, And contrives the topmost place of the rascaldom to hold? And Cleisthenes, they say, Is among the tombs all day, Bewailing for his lover with a lamentable whine. And Callias, I'm told, Has become a sailor bold, And casts a lion's hide o'er his members feminine. DIO. Can any of you tell Where Pluto here may dwell, For we, sirs, are two strangers who were never here before? CHOR. O, then no further stray, Nor again enquire the way, For know that ye have journeyed to his very entrance-door DIO. Take up the wraps, my lad. XAN. Now is not this too bad? Like "Zeus's Corinth," he "the wraps" keeps saying o'er and o'er. CHOR. Now wheel your sacred dances through the glade with flowers bedight, All ye who are partakers of the holy festal rite; And I will with the women and the holy maidens go Where they keep the nightly vigil, an auspicious light to show. (_The departure for the Thriasian Plain_) Now haste we to the roses, And the meadows full of posies, Now haste we to the meadows In our own old way, In choral dances blending, In dances never ending, Which only for the holy The Destinies array. O happy mystic chorus, The blessed sunshine o'er us On us alone is smiling, In its soft sweet light: On us who strove for ever With holy, pure endeavour, Alike by friend and stranger To guide our steps aright. DIO. What's the right way to knock? I wonder how The natives here are wont to knock at doors. XAN. No dawdling: taste the door. You've got, remember, The lion-hide and pride of Heracles. DIO. Boy! boy! AEACUS. Who's there? DIO. I, Heracles the strong! AEAC. O, you most shameless desperate ruffian, you! O, villain, villain, arrant vilest villain! Who seized our Cerberus by the throat, and fled, And ran, and rushed, and bolted, haling off The dog, my charge! But now I've got thee fast. So close the Styx's inky-hearted rock, The blood-bedabbled peak of Acheron Shall hem thee in: the hell-hounds of Cocytus Prowl round thee; whilst the hundred-headed Asp Shall rive thy heart-strings: the Tartesian Lamprey, Prey on thy lungs: and those Tithrasian Gorgons Mangle and tear thy kidneys, mauling them, Entrails and all, into one bloody mash. I'll speed a running foot to fetch them hither. XAN. Hallo! what now? DIO. I've done it: call the god. XAN. Get up, you laughing-stock; get up directly, Before you're seen. DIO. What, _I_ get up? I'm fainting. Please dab a sponge of water on my heart. XAN. Here! DIO. Dab it, you. XAN. Where? O, ye golden gods, Lies your heart THERE? DIO. It got so terrified It fluttered down into my stomach's pit. XAN. Cowardliest of gods and men! DIO. The cowardliest? I? What I, who asked you for a sponge, a thing A coward never would have done!